{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The beach is a dynamic natural environment where land and sea meet, shaped continuously by wind, waves, and tides. Sandy shores, rocky coastlines, and dunes form ecosystems that support a wide range of plant and animal life, from shorebirds and crustaceans to salt-tolerant grasses. Beyond its ecological role, the beach acts as a natural barrier, absorbing wave energy and helping to protect inland areas from erosion and storms.\
As climate change and rising sea levels threaten coastal regions, the preservation and responsible management of beaches have become increasingly critical.Beyond their environmental function, beaches hold strong social, cultural, and economic importance. They are popular destinations for recreation and tourism, offering spaces for swimming, fishing, sports, and relaxation, which contribute significantly to local and national economies. Beaches have also influenced human culture for centuries, inspiring art, literature, and traditions tied to coastal life. However, modern challenges such as pollution, overdevelopment, and climate change pose serious threats to these fragile environments. Rising sea levels and increased storm activity are accelerating coastal erosion, making conservation and sustainable management of beaches more important than ever. Protecting beaches ensures that they continue to provide ecological balance, economic benefits, and natural beauty for future generations.}